# foobar-challenges
my Python scripts to solve google foobar problems. Here is a brief description of what the scripts are:
- GoogleChallenge.py: a function that takes for input an integer, and decomposes it into a sum of squares of integers, starting with the largest one.
- GoogleChallenge2.py: a function that takes for input the height h of a perfect binary tree, which is traversed in the postorder way, together with a list of nodes of the tree, and returns a list of the parents of those nodes.
- GoogleChallenge2b.py: a function that takes for input a list of positions of the centers of adjacent gears along an axis, and returns the radius of the first gear such that the last gear rotates twice as fast as the first gear (if such a radius exists). 
- GoogleChallenge3.py: a function that takes for input a list l of positive integers, and returns the number of "lucky triples" in the list. A "lucky triple" is a tuple of the form (l[i], l[j], l[k]) such that i < j < k, and such that l[i] divides l[j] and l[j] divides l[k].
- GoogleChallenge3b.py: a function that takes an integer n and returns the smallest number of steps to go from n to 1 by the operations: adding or subtracting 1, or - if the integer is even - dividing by 2.
- GoogleChallenge3c.py: a function that takes a matrix of non-negative integers, thought of as an absorbing Markov matrix, and returns a list of possibilities to transition from a given initial state to all the absorbing states.
- GoogleChallenge4.py: consider a 2-dimensional rectangular room with walls of integer lengths, and two players positioned on an integer lattice inside the room (and not on the walls of the room). The two players are not positioned at the same lattice site. Find the total number of directions along which the first player can shoot the second player, given that the bullet reflects off the wall at the same angle as the incident angle (and in case the bullet hits a corner of the room, it is reflected back along the same direction as the ingoing direction). The function accepts 4 arguments: the first argument is a list of 2 integers specifying the size of the room; the second argument is a list of 2 integers specifying the location of the first player, and third argument is a list of 2 integers specifying the location of the second player, and the fourth argument is an integer corresponding to the maximal length of travel of the bullet (beyond which the bullet is ineffective).
- GoogleChallenge4b.py: given a set of n_buns persons, we want to distribute a number of keys to this set of persons such that any subset of n_required persons have all the keys, but no subset of (n_required - 1) persons has all the keys. We assume that the total number of keys is the smallest possible for this to work. We write a function that takes n_buns and n_required for arguments, and returns the key distribution in the form of a list of lists (arranged in lexicographic order).
